Cypher25 default language (#2372)
neo4j/docs-operations: modules/ROOT/pages/database-administration/aliases/manage-aliases-standard-databases.adoc

====

There are two kinds of database aliases - local and remote:

Local database aliases::
A local database alias can only target a database within the same DBMS.
It can be used in all Cypher commands in place of the target database.
Please note that the local database alias will be resolved while executing the command.
Privileges are defined on the target database, and not the local database alias.

Remote database aliases::
A remote database alias may target a database from another Neo4j DBMS.
It can be used for:
* Connecting to a database of a remote Neo4j DBMS
* `USE` clauses
* Setting a user's home database and defining the access privileges
* label:new[Introduced in 2025.06] Setting a default Cypher version for queries to the remote database.
+
Remote database aliases require configuration to safely connect to the remote target, which is described in xref::database-administration/aliases/remote-database-alias-configuration.adoc[Connecting remote databases].
It is not possible to impersonate a user on the remote database or to execute an administration command on the remote database via a remote database alias.

[NOTE]
====

> Starting with Neo4j 2025.06, a database or remote alias can be assigned a default Cypher version.

Reviewer: after looking at the built version I think it's fine: the connection comment is indented so having the note after makes sense

> Starting with Neo4j 2025.06, a database or remote alias can be assigned a default Cypher version.

Reviewer: however, maybe the connecting comment should be less idented 
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/c37457cf-0466-43bb-8f5e-86a78dea317a)
might be nicer if it was aligned with `A remote database alias may target a database from another Neo4j DBMS. It can be used for:` instead of the last item of the list, so it won't look like it is connected to the default language

A remote database alias may target a database from another Neo4j DBMS.
It can be used for:
* Connecting to a database of a remote Neo4j DBMS
* `USE` clauses
* Setting a user's home database and defining the access privileges
* label:new[Introduced in 2025.06] Setting a default Cypher version for queries to the remote database.
+
Remote database aliases require configuration to safely connect to the remote target, which is described in xref::database-administration/aliases/remote-database-alias-configuration.adoc[Connecting remote databases].
It is not possible to impersonate a user on the remote database or to execute an administration command on the remote database via a remote database alias.

> Starting with Neo4j 2025.06, a remote database alias can be assigned a default Cypher version.

Author: Yes, I think so. This is kind of a summary of the remote database aliases.

> Starting with Neo4j 2025.06, a remote database alias can be assigned a default Cypher version.

Author: Actually, I can move the note below being changed now and applies to both.

The required privileges are described in the xref:authentication-authorization/dbms-administration.adoc#access-control-dbms-administration-alias-management[The DBMS ALIAS MANAGEMENT privileges].
When connected to the DBMS over Bolt, administration commands are automatically routed to the `system` database.

[NOTE]
====
If a transaction modifies a database alias, other transactions concurrently executing against that alias may be aborted and rolled back for safety.
This prevents issues such as a transaction executing against multiple target databases for the same alias.
====

There are two kinds of database aliases - local and remote:

Local database aliases::
A local database alias can only target a database within the same DBMS.
It can be used in all Cypher commands in place of the target database.
Please note that the local database alias will be resolved while executing the command.
Privileges are defined on the target database, and not the local database alias.

Remote database aliases::
A remote database alias may target a database from another Neo4j DBMS.
It can be used for:
* Connecting to a database of a remote Neo4j DBMS
* `USE` clauses

> * Setting a user's home database

Reviewer: should we mention home database for local aliases as well? Feels odd to just have it on the remote side

alternatively we don't mention it on either as we below have `The home database for users can be set to an alias, which will be resolved to the target database on use.` which is true for both local and remote aliases I'd assume.

Copying over https://github.com/neo4j/docs-operations/pull/2372#discussion_r2169118539

* Defining the access privileges to the remote database
* label:new[Introduced in 2025.06] Setting a default Cypher version for queries to the remote database.

Remote database aliases require configuration to safely connect to the remote target, which is described in xref::database-administration/aliases/remote-database-alias-configuration.adoc[Connecting remote databases].
It is not possible to impersonate a user on the remote database or to execute an administration command on the remote database via a remote database alias.

[NOTE]
====

> Starting with Neo4j 2025.06, a database or remote alias can be assigned a default Cypher version.

Reviewer: And with the fix for https://github.com/neo4j/docs-operations/pull/2372#discussion_r2175050577 we're back to my initial point of https://github.com/neo4j/docs-operations/pull/2372#discussion_r2169122575:

wouldn't it make more sense to have this note just below the list talking about default Cypher version instead of having it after the sentence about connecting?

The sentence about connecting isn't at all indented anymore so it makes more sense to have the two things related to default language together
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/3fa073af-c0e3-47f1-9543-366c47aa1b64)

Author: So, if I add right after the default Cypher bullet, it will be part of the bullet. Probably, I need to move it just below Connecting to a database of a remote Neo4j DBMS and leave the note alone:
<img width="807" alt="Screenshot 2025-07-01 at 11 45 20" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/5d741f40-c316-4c78-a817-c2b960b9cabe" />

  connection_pool_idle_test: duration({minutes: 2}),
  connection_pool_max_size: 10,
  logging_level: 'info'
}
DEFAULT LANGUAGE CYPHER 25;
----
////

You can list all available database aliases using the `SHOW ALIASES FOR DATABASE` command.

> The command returns a table of all standard and composite database aliases. +

Author: Yes, this sounds good.

A database alias can target a remote database by providing an URL and the credentials of a user on the remote Neo4j DBMS.
See xref:database-administration/aliases/remote-database-alias-configuration.adoc[] for the necessary configurations.

As with local database aliases, creating remote database aliases allows `IF NOT EXISTS` and `OR REPLACE` clauses.

> Both check for any remote or local database aliases.

Author: It's been removed because local and remote are in different sections. Does it mean that `IF NOT EXISTS` and `OR REPLACE` check for local database aliases even when you try to create a remote database alias, and vice versa?

[[alias-management-drop-database-alias]]
== Delete database aliases

You can delete both local and remote database aliases using the `DROP ALIAS` command.
The required privileges are described in the xref:authentication-authorization/dbms-administration.adoc#access-control-dbms-administration-alias-management[The DBMS ALIAS MANAGEMENT privileges].

=== Delete local database aliases

You can delete a local database alias using the `DROP ALIAS` command.
For example:

.Query
[source, cypher]
----
DROP ALIAS `northwind` FOR DATABASE
----

> To verify that the local database alias has been deleted, you can use the `SHOW ALIASES FOR DATABASE` command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To verify that the local database alias has been deleted, you can use the `SHOW DATABASES` command.
```
